modeling geometrical heterogeneity in biofilms
biofilms are accumulations of microorganisms on surfaces in aquatic systems developing in highly irregular morphologies. the smallest length scale in a structural biofilm model is orders of magnitude smaller than the biofilm itself. this allows only simulation of small parts of the system and makes computing resources the restricting factor for problem size. the aim of this paper is to present an overview of a state of the art computational model for the formation of biofilm morphology in a hydrodynamic environment and to establish it as a high performance computing application. data parallelism in model and
solution algorithms is discussed, and experiences of a first implementation in high performance fortran on a cray t3e are reported. the biofilm model is combined from different branches of mathematical modeling: a discrete cellular automaton, continuous kinetic equations and conservation laws for fluid flow and substrate concentrations. due to the irregularity of biofilm structure it is of major importance to apply numerical methods which are capable of dealing with virtually any geometrical structure. numerical discussion of the algorithms focuses on the computationally expensive parts in the general solution procedure: a lattice-boltzmann-method for flow field calculation and a combined hoc/cds finite difference scheme for substrate concentration.

application of artificial intelligence to wastewater treatment: a bibliometric analysis and systematic review of technology, economy, management, and wastewater reuse
wastewater treatment is an important step for pollutant reduction and the promotion of water environment quality. the complexity of natural conditions, influent shock, and wastewater treatment technology result in uncertainty and variation in the wastewater treatment system. these uncertainties result in fluctuations in effluent water quality and operation costs, as well as the environmental risk of receiving waters. artificial intelligence has become a powerful tool for minimizing the complexities and complications in wastewater treatment. in this study, we examine the literature from 1995 to 2019 to conduct a large-scale bibliometric analysis of trends in the application 2of artificial intelligence technology to wastewater treatment. furthermore, we present a systematic review of four aspects of the application of artificial intelligence to wastewater treatment: technology, economy, management, and wastewater reuse. finally, we provide perspectives on the potential future directions of new research frontiers in the utilization of artificial intelligence in wastewater treatment plants that simultaneously address pollutant removal, cost reduction, water reuse, and management challenges in complex practical applications.

development of in-house lattice-boltzmann simulator of bioreactors for wastewater treatment: basic concepts and initial results
while computational modelling has increasingly supported wastewater bioreactor engineering, novel numerical techniques have been developed such as the lattice-boltzmann method (lbm). with vinasse treatment as case study, this work is a first step towards a comprehensive lbm simulator of a continuous-flow anaerobic packed-bed reactor. extensions from typical models comprise one-dimensional (besides time) dependence, species transport via convection and diffusion, and imposition of either dirichlet or danckwerts condition at inlet. the lbm simulator proved to be operational when simulating the bioreactor at different hydraulic retention times (hrts). simulated profiles show that stepwise feeding concentrations are smoothed as they are transported towards the bioreactor exit while concentrations increase or decrease in response to generation or degradation kinetics. good fitting was observed for concentrations of acetic acid (2.1 kg-cod/m3 for hrt = 24 h) and butyric acid (1.3 kg-cod/m3 for hrt = 16 h) at the exit whereas other concentrations were numerically simulated at proper order of magnitude.

porosity and tortuosity relations as revealed by a mathematical model of biofilm structure
a biofilm is assumed to be submerged in a fluid with given viscosity and low reynolds number. the interaction between fluid and bacteria is modeled through streamlines. we use finite-difference and boundary element numerical schemes to predict streamlines within the biofilm. the results show that this approach can provide information about prior distribution and geometry of the biofilm structure. theoretical values of porosity and tortuosity are computed and compared with published data.

modelling clogging and biofilm detachment in sponge carrier media
sponge carrier media provide a large surface area for biofilm support; however, little information is known about how to model their dual nature as a moving bed and as porous media. to investigate the interaction of mass transfer and detachment with bio-clogging, a novel biofilm model framework was built based on individual-based modelling, and hydrodynamics were modelled using the lattice boltzmann method. the combined model structure enabled the simulation of oxygen and biomass distribution inside the porous network as well as inside the biofilm. in order to apply the model to moving bed biofilm reactors (mbbr), biofilm detachment due to abrasion (carrier collisions) was modelled to be dependent on intracarrier distance. in the initial growth stage, biofilm grew homogeneously on the internal skeleton after which a more discontinuous growth developed which significantly increased permeability. low detachment rates caused clogging in the outer pores which limited growth of biofilm to the surface region of the sponge. high detachment rates on the surface enabled deeper oxygen penetration with higher internal biomass activity. the degree of clogging was also sensitive to the presence of extracellular polymeric substances because of its large spatial occupancy.

pore-scale lattice boltzmann simulation of flow and mass transfer in bioreactor with an immobilized granule for biohydrogen production
the photo bioreaction combined with flow and mass transfer is simulated with pore-scale lattice boltzmann (lb) method, which is the scenario of a bioreactor filled with a porous granule immobilized photosynthetic bacteria cells for hydrogen production. the quartet structure generation set (qsgs) is used to generate porous structure of the immobilized granule. the effects of porosity of the immobilized granule on flow and concentration fields as well as the hydrogen production performance are investigated. higher porosity facilitates the substrate solution smoothly flowing through the porous granule with increasing velocity, and thus results in higher product concentration inside the immobilized granule. additionally, the substrate consumption efficiency increases, while hydrogen yield slightly decreases with increasing porosity, and they tend to stable for the porosity larger than 0.5. furthermore, the lb numerical results have a good agreement with the experimental results. it is demonstrated that the pore-scale lb simulation method coupling with qsgs is available to simulate the photo hydrogen production in the bioreactor with porous immobilized granules.

pore-scale simulation of biomass growth along the transverse mixing zone of a model two-dimensional porous medium
the success of in situ bioremediation projects depends on the mixing of contaminants and nutrients in the presence of microbes. in this work, a pore-scale model is developed to simulate biomass growth that is controlled by the mixing of an electron donor and acceptor. a homogeneous packing of cylinders representing solid grains is used as the model two-dimensional porous medium. the system is initially seeded with microbes in computational cells located at grain-water interfaces. the solutes enter the system completely unmixed; each solute is input over one half of the inlet boundary. solute mixing is controlled by molecular diffusion transverse to the flow direction, and solutes are biotransformed according to dual monod kinetics only where biomass is present. simulation of biomass growth requires calculation of the water flow field as well as transport and reaction of solutes. the lattice boltzmann method is used to obtain the flow field. transport and reaction of the solutes is modeled by a finite volume discretization of the advection-diffusion-reaction equation. biomass is allowed to grow and spread by means of a cellular automata algorithm. model parameters are systematically varied to understand their effects on biomass development. base case parameter values are obtained from batch experiments reported in the literature and are modified to achieve agreement
between simulation results and previously reported micromodel experimental results. the most significant mechanisms that control biomass development are shear strength of new biomass and solute degradation rates. the biomass growth model achieves good qualitative agreement with experimental results.

solute transport in shallow water flows using the coupled curvilinear lattice boltzmann method
a novel form of coupled curvilinear lattice boltzmann model (cclbm) for solving the solute transport in shallow water flows, imposed by the complex geometry, is developed and applied. shallow water equations, transformed into curvilinear coordinate system, are solved using the lattice boltzmann equation with multiple-relaxation-time (mrt-lbm), while the curvilinear form of the 2d advection-diffusion equation is solved applying the bhatnagar-gross-krook (bgk-lbm) approach. corresponding forms of equilibrium distribution function for both the shallow water and the advection-diffusion equation is derived using the d2q9 lattice. the physical flow domain of arbitrary geometry in the horizontal plane is covered with adequate curvilinear mesh, while the calculation procedure for flow and transport is carried out in the d2q9 square lattice, applying the basic form of the boundary condition method on water-solid and open boundaries as well. the coupled flow and pollution transport is tested using a straight inclined channel, irrigation channel with a parabolic cross section in a  bend, and a segment of the danube river. in the cases of the straight inclined channels analytic solution is used as a comparative base, while for the bent channel previously obtained velocity measurements are utilized for flow calibration, where a mathematical model based on traditional cfd procedures is used for pollution transport validation. unsteady flow and salinity transport in the danube river is calibrated and modelled using velocity and salinity measurements, along with the results obtained by the traditionally based cfd model. the high level of agreement between the results obtained by the proposed model and the corresponding analytical values and measurements indicates that the presented curvilinear form of the lbm is capable of solving very complex environmental problems.

lattice boltzmann method modeling of flow structures and level fluctuations in a continuous casting process transient flow and level fluctuations in the mold were simulated using the three-dimensional lattice boltzmann method (lbm). 
the lbm model was verified by measured data from the literature. the transient flow field and the free surface fluctuations in the mold were simulated. the distributions of the coherent structures were also investigated. the results showed that the
behavior of the jets with oscillating characteristics on both sides of the submerged entry nozzle (sen) played an essential role in the development of the turbulent flow in the mold. during jet diffusion, the coherent vortex ring and vortex rib structures were generated. the vortices at the narrow wall were asymmetrical in the mold, accompanied by the development, dissipation, and extinction of the coherent structures in the turbulent flow. the asymmetric flow affected the free surface fluctuations at the top of the mold. the peak and trough fluctuations on both sides of the sen alternated thereon. the distributions of the free surface fluctuations were quantified at different casting speeds and sen immersion depths. as the casting speed was increased, the variations and the velocities of the free surface increased; as the sen immersion depth increased, the fluctuations and the velocities thereof decreased.

lattice-boltzmann modeling of contaminant degradation by chemotactic bacteria: exploring the formation and movement of bacterial bands
we developed a three-dimensional lattice-boltzmann (lb) model to simulate the biodegradation of a dissolved substrate, toward which bacteria exhibit chemotaxis. the model was verified by comparing simulations to capillary assay experiments performed
elsewhere. in these assays, a capillary containing an aqueous solution, with initially uniformly distributed dissolved naphthalene, was dipped into a reservoir containing pseudomonas putida, a microorganism that exhibits chemotaxis to naphthalene. these experiments were also performed with additional glass beads present in the capillary and reservoir. the simulations show that a fraction of the bacteria separates from the reservoir to form a band that moves with constant speed into the capillary while metabolizing the naphthalene. we also used the lb model to explore band formation in a porous medium under groundwater flow conditions. if a bacterial slug is injected, two bacterial bands form; one moves upstream and the other moves downstream. the magnitudes of the two band velocities, as measured relative to the pore water velocity, are identical. bacteria injected in excess are advected downstream in a fluid parcel containing no substrate. our simulations suggest that the bioremediation of a contaminant plume in groundwater can potentially be enhanced by the injection of chemotactic bacteria. we also derived a correlation that predicts the number of bacteria in a band that separates from a semi-infinite bacterial slug in a domain containing substrate that is initially uniformly distributed. this correlation allows estimation of the optimal number of bacteria that needs to be added to a substrate-filled domain, such that the number of bacteria in the band is maximum while simultaneously avoiding the injection of excess bacteria that do not make it into the band.

towards lattice-boltzmann modelling of unconfined gas mixing in anaerobic digestion
a novel lattice-boltzmann model to simulate gas mixing in anaerobic digestion is developed and described. for the first time, euler–lagrange multiphase, non-newtonian and turbulence modelling are applied jontly with a novel hybrid boundary condition. the model is validated in a laboratory-scale framework and flow patterns are assessed through particle imaging velocimetry (piv) and innovative positron-emission particle tracking (pept). the model is shown to reproduce the experimental flow patterns with fidelity in both qualitative and quantitative terms. the model opens up a new approach to computational modelling of the complex multiphase flow in anaerobic digesters and offers specific advantages, such as computational efficiency, over an analogous euler-lagrange finite-volume computational fluid dynamics approach.

the assessment of ecological water replenishment scheme based on the two-dimensional lattice-boltzmann water age theory
ecological water replenishment is an effective approach to the wetlands suffering water shortage. however, optimizing the replenishment is a tough problem, considering local flow pattern, water exchange and environmental crisis. therefore, determining the inlet position and the flow rate of water diversion remains an interesting and important topic. this study developed an applicable and reliable method to identify the preferable inlet location and inflow rates of the transferred water, which considers the influence of the factors on environmental risks in receiving water bodies based on numerical results using the lattice boltzmann method (lbm) in both lagrangian and eulerian frameworks. an environmental risk assessment system with comprehensive utilization of water age was established. the water transfer project for the baiyangdian lake from the yellow river is a representative and well-known water replenishment event in china, which served as a case study. the results show that under the static and nne wind conditions, the north open inlet is a suitable inlet position, while the south one is preferable under the ssw wind condition. considering the environmental risk of the water transfer, it indicates that higher inflow rate would bring less environmental risk generally and the optimal inflow rate is 20 m3/s , regardless of the wind conditions and the inlet position. the methods aforementioned played a vital role in optimizing the inlet position of water delivery and selecting the optimal plan of the recharge rate. it could provide a useful reference for ecological restoration and a guarantee for sustainable development of wetlands.

modeling, analysis, and simulation of biofilm formation and decay
in this article, we give a brief overview of our recent work on continuum mechanical modelling and simulation of microbial films. this comprises some classical tasks of applied mathematics such as computational fluid dynamics, analysis of partial differential equations, and mathematical biology.

development of a robust and efficient biogas processor for hydrogen production. part 1:
modelling and simulation
the present work deals with the modelling and simulation of a biogas demo-processor for green hydrogen production via autothermal reforming (atr) process aimed at covering a wide span of potential applications, from fuel cells feed up to the production of pure hydrogen. the biogas atr unit is composed of a structured catalyst support close coupled to a wall-flow filter that retain soot particles that can be formed during the atr reaction. modelling and simulation (cfd and fem) were carried out to select the innovative catalyst support with promising results for the fuel processor. 3d digital sample reconstruction was performed for the selection of the appropriate porous structures commercially available for the soot filtration and furthermore, 2d cfd analysis was also used to examine flow uniformity issues due to soot trap integration downstream to the atr. moreover, the inherent flexibility of the model performed allowed its application in the assessment of the demonstration plant operating in real conditions. besides, aspen simulation has demonstrated that the atr process is the most promising process to hydrogen production compared to other types of reforming process.

development of an in-house lattice-boltzmann simulator towards bioreactors for wastewater treatment: underlying concepts
lattice boltzmann method (lbm) has become a powerful technique to simulate bioprocesses in porous media. based on a relatively simple dynamic 1-d model, the present work is a first step towards a comprehensive lbm simulator of bioreactor for vinasse treatment, taken as case study. species concentrations were lbm-simulated at appropriate order of magnitude.

lattice-boltzmann model for bacterial chemotaxis
we present a new numerical approach for modeling bacterial chemotaxis and the fate and transport of a chemoattractant in bulk liquids. this lattice-boltzmann method represents the microorganisms and the chemoattractant by quasi-particles that move, collide, and react with each other on a two-dimensional numerical lattice. we use the model to simulate traveling bands of bacteria along self-generated gradients in substrate concentration in bulk liquids. particularly, we simulate pseudomonas putida that respond chemotactically to naphthalene dissolved in water. we find that only a fraction of a bacterial slug injected into a domain containing the chemoattractant at constant concentration forms a traveling band as the slug length exceeds a critical value. an expanding bacterial ring forms as one injects a droplet of bacteria into a two-dimensional domain.

an immersed boundary-lattice boltzmann model for biofilm growth in porous media
in this paper, we present a two-dimensional pore-scale numerical model to investigate the main mechanisms governing biofilm growth in porous media. the fluid flow and solute transport equations are coupled with a biofilm evolution model. fluid flow is simulated with an immersed boundary–lattice boltzmann model while solute transport is described with a volume-of-fluid-type approach. a cellular automaton algorithm combined with immersed boundary methods was developed to describe the spreading and distribution of biomass. bacterial attachment and detachment mechanisms are also taken into account. the capability of this model to describe correctly the couplings involved between fluid circulation, nutrient transport and bacterial growth is tested under different hydrostatic and hydrodynamic conditions (i) on a flat medium and (ii) for a complex porous medium. for the second case, different regimes of biofilm growth are identified and are found to be related to the dimensionless parameters of the model, damköhler and péclet numbers and dimensionless shear stress. finally, the impact of biofilm growth on the macroscopic properties of the porous medium is investigated and we discuss the unicity of the relationships between hydraulic conductivity and biofilm volume fraction.

multi-scale modelling of biofilm in sponge carrier media
this thesis describes a multiscale model of the reaction and mass transport processes in a sponge carrier media applied for waste water treatment. this was performed by dividing the sponge carrier media process into four spatial scales: reactor, sponge, biofilm and individual organisms. in this way the individual scales were modelled separately and the connection between different scales were solved by a proper set of boundary conditions. firstly, an aerated sponge moving bed biofilm reactor (mbbr) was modelled by conducting a fluid dynamic and particle dynamic simulation, where sponge and air bubbles were simulated as particles. from the results, a pressure gradient boundary condition for the internal flow was developed. secondly, a model of bio-clogging was performed by investigating the interaction of the biofilm growth and detachment with the porous structure of the sponge carrier media. the interaction was solved by the lattice boltzmann methods (lbm) of hydraulic and mass transfer coupled with individual-based modelling (ibm) of the biofilm, where individual cells were modelled as particles. finally, from analysis and generalizations of the results, a simple model for engineering purposes was developed with empirical relations of internal bio-clogging. by a new definition of a critical porosity for bio-clogging, the model could be calibrated with experimental results.

modeling biofilm morphology along a transverse mixing zone in porous media at the pore scale
this work describes the development and application of a model to simulate substrate transport, biodegradation, and biofilm growth at the pore scale. since field observations indicate that bioactive zones are located along plume boundaries where the contaminant mixes with nutrients in the ambient groundwater, we simulate a 2d porous medium in which biofilm growth is controlled by transverse mixing between the electron acceptor and donor. in the model, biofilms are initialized as thin films located on surfaces of cylinders that are arranged in a staggered packing. the lattice boltzmann method is used to solve for the steady flow field, employing bounce-back boundary conditions to enforce no-slip and zero flux conditions at solid-fluid interfaces. the substrates enter the system completely unmixed and are degraded only in the presence of microbes. transport and reaction of the solutes is modeled by a finite volume discretization of the advection-diffusion-reaction equation. the newton-raphson method is used to linearize the coupled equations. biofilms are allowed to evolve by means of a cellular automata algorithm. characteristics of simulated biofilms are qualitatively compared to biofilms from a micromodel experiment. the effects of reaction rate parameters and biofilm shear strength on biofilm length within a pore, thickness, and location of growth within the porous media are explored.

lattice boltzmann simulation of substrate solution through a porous granule immobilized psb-cell for biohydrogen production
a bioreaction system of substrate solution through a porous granule immobilized photosynthetic bacteria-cell for photobiohydrogen production is simulated by the lattice boltzmann model coupled with a multi-block strategy. the effects on flow and mass transfer are investigated by illumination intensity, influent velocity, permeability and porosity of porous granule. additionally, hydrogen production performance including hydrogen yield and substrate consumption efficiency is evaluated. the numerical results indicate that the hydrogen yield and substrate consumption efficiency achieve maximum under illumination intensity of 6000 lx. the permeability and influent velocity have significant impact on flow and concentration fields. moreover, with increasing permeability, the hydrogen yield increases, while the substrate consumption efficiency decreases, and with increasing influent velocity, both the hydrogen yield and consumption efficiency decrease. with increasing porosity, the hydrogen yield slightly decreases and the substrate consumption efficiency increases, and they tend to be stable when the porosity is over 0.5

lattice boltzmann simulation on liquid flow and mass transport in a bioreactor with cylinder bundle for hydrogen production
the lattice boltzmann method is adopted to simulate hydrodynamics and mass transfer accompanying with biochemical reaction in a channel with cylinder bundle, which is the scenario of biohydrogen production by photosynthetic bacteria in the biofilm attached on the surface of cylinder bundle in photobioreactor. the effects of cylinder spacing, reynolds number and cylinder arrangement are investigated. the numerical results reveal that highest glucose concentration and the lowest hydrogen concentration are obtained at the front of the first row cylinders for all cases. the staggered arrangement leads to an increment in average drag coefficient, sherwood number and consumption efficiency of substrate under a given condition, and the increment in sherwood number reaches up to 30 %, while that in drag coefficient is around 1 %, moreover, the increment in consumption efficiency reaches the maximum value of 12 %. the results indicate that the staggered arrangement is beneficial to the mass transfer and biochemical reaction.

modelling microbial fuel cells using lattice boltzmann methods
an accurate modelling of bio-electrochemical processes that govern microbial fuel cells (mfcs) and mapping their behaviour according to several parameters will enhance the development of mfc technology and enable their successful implementation in well defined applications. the geometry of the electrodes is among key parameters determining efficiency of mfcs due to the formation of a biofilm of anodophilic bacteria on the anode electrode, which is a decisive factor for the functionality of the device. we simulate the bio-electrochemical processes in an mfc while taking into account the geometry of the electrodes. namely, lattice boltzmann methods are used to simulate the fluid dynamics and the advection-diffusion phenomena in the anode compartment. the model is verified on voltage and current outputs of a single mfc derived from laboratory experiments under continuous flow.

simulating engineering flows through complex porous media via the lattice boltzmann method
in this paper, recent achievements in the application of the lattice boltzmann method (lbm) to complex fluid flows are reported. more specifically, we focus on flows through reactive porous media, such as the flow through the substrate of a selective catalytic reactor (scr) for the reduction of gaseous pollutants in the automotive field; pulsed-flow analysis through heterogeneous catalyst architectures; and transport and electrochemical phenomena in microbial fuel cells (mfc) for novel waste-to-energy applications. to the authors’ knowledge, this is the first known application of lbm modeling to the study of mfcs, which represents by itself a highly innovative and challenging research area. the results discussed here essentially confirm the capabilities of the lbm approach as a flexible and accurate computational tool for the simulation of complex multi-physics phenomena of scientific and technological interest, across physical scales.

start-up process modelling of sediment microbial fuel cells based on data driven
sediment microbial fuel cells (smfcs) are a typical microbial fuel cell without membranes. they are a device developed on the basis of electrochemistry and use microbes as catalysts to convert chemical energy stored in organic matter into electrical energy. this study selected a single-chamber smfc as a research object, using online monitoring technology to accurately measure the temperature, ph, and voltage of the microbial fuel cell during the start-up process. in the process of microbial fuel cell start-up, the relationship between temperature, ph, and voltage was analysed in detail, and the correlation between them was calculated using spss software. the experimental results show that, at the initial stage of smfc, the purpose of rapid growth of power production can be achieved by a large increase in temperature, but once the temperature is reduced, the power production of smfc will soon recover to the state before the temperature change. at the beginning of smfc, when the temperature changes drastically, ph will change the same first, and then there will be a certain degree of rebound. in the middle stage of smfc start-up, even if the temperature will return to normal after the change, a continuous temperature drop in a short time will lead to a continuous decrease in ph value. the rbf neural network and elm neural network were used to perform nonlinear system regression in the later stage of smfc start-up and using the regression network to forecast part of the data. the experimental results show that the elm neural network is more excellent in forecasting smfc system. this article will provide important guidance for shortening start-up time and increasing power output.

multidimensional modelling of biofilm structure
a fully quantitative two- and three-dimensional approach for biofilm growth and structure formation has been developed. the present model incorporates the flow over the irregular biofilm surface, convective and diffusive mass transfer of substrate, bacterial growth, biomass spreading and biofilm detachment due to biofilm deformation stress. any arbitrary shape of the carrier surface can be accommodated in the model, as well as multispecies and multi substrate biofilms. results of model simulations show that the ratio between nutrient transfer rate to the biofilm and the bacterial growth rate influences to a great extent the biofilm roughness and porosity. a low mass transfer rate, i.e., low reynolds numbers or high values of thiele modulus, results in the development of a rough and open biofilm.when the biofilm growth is limited not by substrate availability, but by the rate of bacterial metabolism, the biofilm forms as a compact and homogeneous structure. high shear forces lead, by means of continuous erosion and discrete sloughing events, to a smoother, more compact and thinner biofilm. the multidimensional biofilm modelling approach used is well suited for theoretical investigations of factors that affect biofilm structure and ecology.

the lattice boltzmann method in bioreactor design and simulation
the lattice boltzmann method (lbm) for fluid flow has already proven itself a viable alternative to classical cfd (computational fluid dynamics) methods based on discrete scheme application to navier stokes equations governing the fluid flow. in this paper, we aim to verify the applicability of the lbm in a special case of a couette–taylor photobioreactor—a device comprised of two coaxial cylinders with a rotating inner wall. an appropriate numerical approach to the curved moving wall boundary condition is presented and verified by velocity flow field comparison with analytical solution. the parallelism potential of the lbm is exploited on the parallel platform of cuda (compute unified device architecture). microalgae growth in the flow field simulated by the lbm is based on the photosynthetic factory (psf) model treated in a parallel stochastic manner and implemented also on the parallel platform of cuda. the parallel stochastic psf solver has been validated by comparison with an analytical solution of the psf model at constant irradiance.

a theoretical study on the effect of surface roughness on mass transport and transformation in biofilms
this modeling study evaluates the influence of biofilm geometrical characteristics on substrate mass transfer and conversion rates. a spatially two‐dimensional model was used to compute laminar fluid flow, substrate mass transport, and conversion in irregularly shaped biofilms. the flow velocity above the biofilm surface was varied over 3 orders of magnitude. numerical results show that increased biofilm roughness does not necessarily lead to an enhancement of either conversion rates or external mass transfer. the average mass transfer coefficient and sherwood numbers were found to decrease almost linearly with biofilm area enlargement in the flow regime tested. the influence of flow, biofilm geometry and biofilm activity on external mass transfer could be quantified by sh–re correlations. the effect of biofilm surface roughness was incorporated in this correlation via area enlargement. conversion rates could be best correlated to biofilm compactness. the more compact the biofilm, the higher the global conversion rate of substrate. although an increase of bulk fluid velocity showed a large effect on mass transfer coefficients, the global substrate conversion rate per carrier area was less affected. if only diffusion occurs in pores and channels, then rough biofilms behave as if they were compact but having less biomass activity. in spite of the fact that the real biofilm area is increased due to roughness, the effective mass transfer area is actually decreased because only biofilm peaks receive substrate. this can be explained by the fact that in the absence of normal convection in the biofilm valleys, the substrate gradients are still largely perpendicular to the carrier. even in the cases where convective transport dominates the external mass transfer process, roughness could lead to decreased conversion rates. the results of this study clearly indicate that only evaluation of overall conversion rates or mass fluxes can describe the correct biofilm conversion, whereas interpretation of local concentration or flow measurements as such might easily lead to erroneous conclusions.

effect of diffusive and convective substrate transport on biofilm structure
formation: a two-dimensional modeling study
a two‐dimensional model for quantitative evaluation of the effect of convective and diffusive substrate transport on biofilm heterogeneity was developed. the model includes flow computation around the irregular biofilm surface, substrate mass transfer by convection and diffusion, biomass growth, and biomass spreading. it was found that in the absence of detachment, biofilm heterogeneity is mainly determined by internal mass transfer rate of substrates and by the initial percentage of carrier surface colonization. model predictions show that biofilm structures with highly irregular surface develop in the mass transfer‐limited regime. as the nutrient availability increases, there is a gradual shift toward compact and smooth biofilms. a smaller fraction of colonized carrier surface leads to a patchy biofilm. biofilm surface irregularity and deep vertical channels are, in this case, caused by the inability of the colonies to spread over the whole substratum surface. the maximum substrate flux to the biofilm was greatly influenced by both internal and external mass transfer rates, but not affected by the inoculation density. in general, results of the present model were similar to those obtained by a simple diffusion–reaction–growth model.

validation of 3d simulations of reverse osmosis membrane biofouling
the increasing demand for drinking water and its stricter quality requirements have resulted in an exponentially expanding industry of membrane filtration processes. currently, reverse osmosis (ro) is the most common method of desalination, able to produce water that is virtually free of pollutants and pathogenic micro-organisms. biofouling of these devices however is a significant limitation. here we present a 3d simulation of ro membrane biofouling based on a lattice boltzmann (lb) platform that we subsequently favorably compare with experimental data. this data consists of temporally (and spatially) resolved velocity measurements acquired for a ro membrane using magnetic resonance techniques. the effect of biofilm cohesive strength on system pressure drop is then explored; weaker biomass is observed to have a reduced impact on pressure drop (per unit biomass accumulated).

the effect of biofilm permeability on bio-clogging of porous media
a 3d biofilm model, appropriate for complex porous media support structures, is successfully modified such that non‐zero permeability of biofilms structures is enabled. a systematic study is then conducted into the influence of biofilm permeability on overall biomass growth rate. this reveals a significant influence at large biofilm concentrations; even when the permeability of the biomass is 1.25% of that of the free pore space, biomass accumulation increased by a factor of ∼3 over 40 h. the effect is shown to be retained when allowing for biomass detachment or erosion as a consequence of adjacent velocity shear. we conclude that biofilm permeability should be included in biofilm models and that further experimental work is required to better describe the link between biofilm permeability and local microstructure.

lattice boltzmann method for reacting flows in porous media
we review recent developments in lattice boltzmann method for reacting flows in porous media. we present the lattice boltzmann approaches for incompressible flow, solute transport and chemical reactions in both the pore space and at the fluid/solid interfaces. we discuss in detail the methods to update solid phase when significant mass transfer between solids and fluids is involved due to dissolution and/or precipitation. applications in different areas are presented and perspectives of applying this method to a few important fields are discussed.

an improved lattice boltzmann model for multicomponent reactive transport in porous media at the pore scale
in this paper, we improve the lattice boltzmann pore-scale model for multicomponent reactive transport in porous media developed in a previous study. instead of applying a thermal boundary condition to solute transport, we rigorously derive the distribution function boundary condition for the total solute concentration. this is achieved first by correcting an expression of the particle distribution function in terms of the corresponding concentration and its gradient and then by deriving and using the relation that the nonequilibrium portion of the distribution function in opposite directions takes on opposite signs. we implement the new boundary condition in both the two-dimensional nine-speed (d2q9) and four-speed (d2q4) lattices. simulations of reactive transport in various chemical and geometrical systems using different models are carried out, and results are compared to analytic expressions or two-dimensional flotran simulations. it is found that with this new boundary condition, the solute mass is strictly conserved by heterogeneous reactions, as was not the case using the thermal boundary condition. it is also found that compared with the d2q9 model, the d2q4 model has comparable accuracy and better computational efficiency.

review of mathematical models for biofilms
in this paper, we briefly review the progress made in the mathematical modeling of biofilms over the last 30 years. biofilms constitute a spectrum of dynamical microorganisms, whose interaction with the surrounding environment and thereby induced dynamics dictates the complex properties of the living organism. modeling of biofilms began with a low dimensional continuum description first based on kinematics and translational diffusions; later, more sophisticated microscopic dynamical mechanisms are introduced leading to the anomalous diffusion and dissipation encountered by various components in biofilms. recently, biofilm and bulk fluid (or solvent) coupling has been investigated using discrete-continuum, multifluid and single fluid multicomponent models to treat the entire biofilm-bulk-fluid system either as a system consisting of various components whose dynamics exhibits different time scale or as a whole. we classify the models into roughly four classes: low-dimensional continuum models, diffusion limited aggregation models, continuum-discrete models, and fully coupled biofilm-fluid models. we will address some hybrid models that combine the ideas from the above categories and new computational protocols combining the existing computational tools for cell dynamics coupled with the discrete-continuum biofilm model.

lattice boltzmann simulation of biofilm clogging and chemical oxygen demand removal in porous media
understanding mechanisms of controlling the bacteria growth and degradation of pollutants is critical for effective improvements in water treatment and bioremediation in porous media. in this study, we developed an integrated model of individual‐based model and multicomponent lattice boltzmann method to study interactions of oxygen, bioclogging, chemical oxygen demand (cod) removal, and their influence on growth and permeability of microbial biofilms. we found biofilm growth to be very heterogeneous on the surface of the solid matrix and pores. there is a biofilm porosity threshold. beyond this threshold, the porosity of biofilm has no obvious influence on the flow rate and cod removal. we also studied the influence of initial cell populations, bulk oxygen concentration and biofilm permeability on the flow rate and cod removal. it demonstrated the capability of the present model to investigate biofilm growth, clogging and contaminants degradation in porous media, and its potential applications in water treatment.

numerical simulation of air flow through a biofilter with heterogeneous porous media
based on the ideal biofilter model, numerical simulation using lattice boltzmann method is carried out to investigate the effect of darcy number and porosity on removal efficiency of low head loss biofilter. the generalized navier–stokes model (brinkman–forchheimer–extended darcy model) is applied making several assumptions. it is found that the darcy number has determinant influence on the removal efficiency, and the effect of porosity on removal efficiency is very weak at lower darcy numbers but very strong at higher darcy numbers. it was found there was strong evidence of flow heterogeneity in the biofilter. in this study we have found the biofilter performance can be improved by adjusting local darcy number of the porous media in the biofilter.

a multiple-relaxation-time lattice-boltzmann model for bacterial chemotaxis: effects of initial concentration, diffusion, and hydrodynamic dispersion on traveling bacterial bands
bacterial chemotaxis can enhance the bioremediation of contaminants in aqueous and subsurface environments if the contaminant is a chemoattractant that the bacteria degrade. the process can be promoted by traveling bands of chemotactic bacteria that form due to metabolism-generated gradients in chemoattractant concentration. we developed a multiple-relaxation-time (mrt) lattice-boltzmann method (lbm) to model chemotaxis, because lbms are well suited to model reactive transport in the complex geometries that are typical for subsurface porous media. this mrt-lbm can attain a better numerical stability than its corresponding single-relaxation-time lbm. we performed simulations to investigate the effects of substrate diffusion, initial bacterial concentration, and hydrodynamic dispersion on the formation, shape, and propagation of bacterial bands. band formation requires a sufficiently high initial number of bacteria and a small substrate diffusion coefficient. uniform flow does not affect the bands while shear flow does. bacterial bands can move both upstream and downstream when the flow velocity is small. however, the bands disappear once the velocity becomes too large due to hydrodynamic dispersion. generally bands can only be observed if the dimensionless ratio between the chemotactic sensitivity coefficient and the effective diffusion coefficient of the bacteria exceeds a critical value, that is, when the biased movement due to chemotaxis overcomes the diffusion-like movement due to the random motility and hydrodynamic dispersion.

numerical simulation on the reduction of flow heterogeneity in the biofilter media
the biofilters are the ideal solutions for the biological treatment of air pollutants. however, there exists strong flow heterogeneity in porous media that degrades the removal efficiency of biofilters. thus, the effects of darcy number, reynolds number and porosity of porous media on the reduction of flow heterogeneity in three biofilter models were numerically studied by the lattice boltzmann method. the simulation results lead to three conclusions: (1) the darcy number has dominant influence on the flow heterogeneity in the biofilters. the reduction of flow heterogeneity can be realized by designing a comparatively low darcy number. (2) the reynolds number has obvious effect on the flow heterogeneity in the biofilters. however, the reduction of flow heterogeneity cannot be effectively established by regulating the reynolds number. (3) the property of porous media greatly influences the flow heterogeneity in the biofilters. the present results are helpful for the optimized design of practical biofilter models.

lattice boltzmann simulation of substrate flow past a cylinder with psb biofilm for bio-hydrogen production
based on hydrogen production by photosynthetic bacteria (psb) in biofilm bioreactor, in the present study, a substrate solution with specific inlet concentration flowing past a circular cylinder with biochemical reaction in an attached thin psb biofilm is numerically simulated by applying the lattice boltzmann method (lbm). a non-equilibrium extrapolation method is employed to handle the velocity and concentration curved boundary. the model is validated by available theoretical and numerical results in terms of the drag and lift coefficients and concentration profiles. the good agreement demonstrated that lbm is an effective method to simulate nonlinear biochemical reaction systems with curved boundary. the velocity profile and concentration distributions of the substrate and hydrogen are determined, and the effect of reynolds number on mass transfer characteristics is also discussed by introducing sherwood number. the simulation results show that for both the substrate and product the concentration extension along x- and y-directions decrease with increasing reynolds number. the highest hydrogen concentration is obtained at the back of the cylinder. furthermore, increasing reynolds number results in decreasing substrate consumption efficiency, while hydrogen yield almost keeps a steady value.

a hybrid immersed boundary-lattice boltzmann/finite difference method for coupled dynamics of fluid flow, advection, diffusion and adsorption in fractured and porous media
in this paper, a hybrid immersed boundary-lattice boltzmann/finite difference method is extended to simulate the coupled dynamics of fluid flow, advection, diffusion and adsorption in fractured and porous media which can describe gas migration and adsorption in the cleat-matrix system of coal. the numerical method includes three important components: fluid solver, advection-diffusion solver, and immersed boundary method for fluid-solid interaction with coupled mass exchange. in the fluid solver, the single-relaxation time lattice boltzmann method is adopted for the fluid dynamics, and immersed boundary method is employed to achieve the no-slip boundary conditions at the fluid-solid interface. the advection-diffusion equation is solved by using the finite difference method, with immersed boundary method for the neumann boundary conditions. this integrated method is extremely efficient for flows involving complex geometries and large deformation problems, as usually encountered in geosciences. benchmark studies including the lid driven cavity flow, heat transfer around a stationary cylinder, and gas migration with adsorption in a channel are conducted to validate the efficiency and accuracy of the current solver. it is found that results predicted by our solver are in good agreement with published data achieved by other numerical or analytical methods, showing that the current method is robust and capable to solve the fluid-solid interaction and mass exchange involving complex geometries in geosciences. finally, this method is employed to model gas migration in the cleat-matrix system of coal, involving the process of kinetic adsorption. this contribution is the first development of its kind for solving problems in geosciences. it is held in a generic numerical formulation so that can be applied to many fields of geosciences involving fluid flow and reaction diffusion through fractured rocks, gas storage in geological formations, groundwater contaminant studies, geothermal and resource applications.

lattice boltzmann model for agrochemical transport in soils
agrochemical transport in soils is complicated and involves physical, chemical and biochemical reactions; its mathematical modelling remains a challenging task. this paper presents a lattice boltzmann model to simulate the agrochemical movement. the lattice boltzmann model is a microscopic and process-based model, simulating the transport process by tracking chemical particles. the model presented in this paper is for one-dimensional vertical leaching and assumes that the chemical particles at the microscopic level move in five directions: one stagnant, two in vertical direction and two in an internal horizontal direction bounded by two reactive walls. reactions at the walls are assumed to take place at two different rates, one in fast rate where the chemicals in the solution and on the wall are in an instant equilibrium, and the other in slow rate where the mass exchange rate between the chemicals in the solution and on the wall is a first-order kinetic. the reactions on both walls are assumed to occur instantly when the chemical particles moving in the internal direction hit the walls. to test the model, we measured the leaching of atrazine through soil columns in the laboratory. the results simulated with the lattice boltzmann model are compared with the measured breakthrough curves and the non-equilibrium two-site convection–dispersion model; they all show close agreement. the transport parameters needed in the models are obtained from the measurement of adsorption isotherm of atrazine, bromide leaching in the same soil columns and calibration.

simulation of packed bed reactors using lattice boltzmann methods
lattice boltzmann (lb) methods are used to simulate hydrodynamics, reaction and subsequent mass transfer in a disordered packed bed of catalyst particles at sub-pore length-scales. in contrast to previous studies, a variety of modifications are introduced in the lb method enabling particle pe numbers up to , and hence realistic values of diffusivity, to be accessed. these include decoupling the hydrodynamics from mass transfer and the use of a rest fraction in the lb formulation of mass transfer. in addition the mass transfer simulations are modified to permit spatially varying values of diffusivity, essential to differentiate between intra- and inter-particle diffusivity ( and , respectively). the simulation method is applied to both a disordered and ordered 2d packing for a range of pe (15.6–1557.8) and re (0.16–1.56) numbers, as well as various ratios of  (0–1), whilst simulating an esterfication reaction catalyzed by an ion-exchange resin. the value of  is found to have limited effect, whilst reducing pe number results in a considerable increase in overall conversion. the simulation method is then applied to a 3d lattice for which experimental conversion data is available. this experimental data is straddled by the simulation case of and , as expected.

evaluating the electrochemical and power performances of microbial fuel cells across physical scales: a novel numerical approach
in this paper, a numerical model for the prediction of microbial fuel cells (mfc) performance is proposed. the model is based on the lattice boltzmann method, a numerical approach based on an optimized formulation of boltzmann's kinetic equation. the model is able to account for the evolution in time of the main parameters related to mfc operation: namely, ph, bacteria activity, current density and it is able to predict the trends of polarization and power curves. the results of the model are compared to experimental data, highlighting the accuracy and flexibility of the proposed model.

numerical modelling of membrane filtration using lattice boltzmann and finite volume methods
the importance of simulations in membrane filtration is discussed. various models in the literature to simulate different phenomena in membrane filtration like cake formation, osmotic pressure and rejection of salts are briefly reviewed. the origin of lattice boltzmann methods from kinetic theory is discussed along with its implementation details. implementing finite volume scheme to solve convection diffusion equation is discussed in detail along with different differencing schemes used to discretize convective terms on the faces of control volume. the idea of coupling both fluid and solute particles to simulate the membrane filtration process is discussed. different approaches in implementing coupling between lb-lb and lbfv for solving fluid and solute particle respectively is discussed. dspm-de model is briefly discussed in the context of salt rejection estimation for nano-filtration membranes. concentration polarisation is taken into account in the rejection modelling by coupling dspm-de with solute distribution over the membrane surface. finally, results of various models are presented and compared to experimental data wherever appropriate.

lattice boltzmann based multicomponent reactive transport model coupled with geochemical solver for scale simulations
a lattice boltzmann (lb) based reactive transport model intended to capture reactions and solid phase changes occurring at the pore scale is presented. the proposed approach uses lb method to compute multi component mass transport. the lb multi-component transport model is then coupled with the well-established geochemical reaction code phreeqc which solves for thermodynamic equilibrium in mixed aqueous-solid phase system with homogenous and heterogeneous reactions. this coupling enables us to update solid phases volumes based on dissolution or precipitation using static update rules which, on pore scale, affects the change of potentially pore network geometry. unlike conventional approach, heterogeneous reactions are conceptualized as volumetric reactions by introducing additional source term in the fluid node next to solid node, and not as flux boundaries. to demonstrate the validity of this approach several examples are presented in this paper


simulation of photobioreaction for hydrogen production in membrane bioreactor with an optical fiber
a generalized lattice boltzmann (lb) model for porous media is adopted to simulate the hydrodynamics and mass transport combined with biodegradation in membrane bioreactor with a circular optical fiber. the lb model is coupled with a multi-block scheme, as well as non-equilibrium extrapolation method for boundary condition treatment. the effect of porosity and permeability (represented by darcy number da) of biofilm on flow and concentration fields are investigated. the performance of biodegradation is evaluated by substrate consumption efficiency. higher porosity and permeability of biofilm facilitate mass transport of substance and enhance the metabolic activity of bacteria in biofilm, which results in the optimal biodegradation performance is obtained under the condition of da = 0.001 and   ε=0.3 . for further increasing of these parameters, the substrate consumption efficiency decreases due to the inhibition effect of substrate and shorter hydraulic retention time. furthermore, the lb results coincide with experimental results, demonstrating that the lb model for porous media is available to optimize the membrane bioreactor for efficient biodegradation.

modeling the effect of soil meso- and macropores topology on the biodegradation of a soluble carbon substrate
soil structure and interactions between biotic and abiotic processes are increasingly recognized as important for explaining the large uncertainties in the outputs of macroscopic som decomposition models. we present a numerical analysis to assess the role of meso- and macropore topology on the biodegradation of a soluble carbon substrate in variably water saturated and pure diffusion conditions . our analysis was built as a complete factorial design and used a new 3d pore-scale model, lbios, that couples a diffusion lattice-boltzmann model and a compartmental biodegradation model. the scenarios combined contrasted modalities of four factors: meso- and macropore space geometry, water saturation, bacterial distribution and physiology. a global sensitivity analysis of these factors highlighted the role of physical factors in the biodegradation kinetics of our scenarios. bacteria location explained 28% of the total variance in substrate concentration in all scenarios, while the interactions among location, saturation and geometry explained up to 51% of it.

modeling the effects of vegetation on fluid flow through an acid mine drainage passive remediation system
the fluid dynamics of acid mine drainage (amd) flow through wingfield pines passive remediation system is captured using a lattice boltzmann model of shallow water flow. the retention time of fluid through the system is critical to the efficient treatment of these polluted waters and, therefore, the retention times in all five settling ponds and the wetlands are elucidated for both the system as it was built, and for when vegetation is present. the effects of vegetation growth is predicted to initially cause channeling, potentially decreasing retention times, but over longer times to increasingly spread the fluid flow throughout the system and increase retention times.

an improved pore‐scale biofilm model and comparison with a microfluidic flow cell experiment
this work presents a pore‐scale biofilm model that solves the flow field using the lattice boltzmann method, the concentration field of chemical species using the finite difference method, and biofilm development using the cellular automaton method. we adapt the model from a previous work and expand it by implementing biofilm shrinkage in the cellular automaton method. the new pore‐scale biofilm model is then evaluated against a previously published pore‐scale biofilm experiment, in which two microfluidic flow cells, one with a homogeneous pore network and the other with an aggregate pore network, were tested for aerobic degradation of a herbicide. the simulated biofilm distribution and morphology, biomass accumulation, and contaminant removal are generally consistent with the experimental data. biofilm detachment in this model occurs when the local shear stress is above a critical value. we use the critical value from our previously published modeling study and find it works well in this case, even though we now have a different pore network and a different microbial species. we also use the model to show that the interaction between flow and biofilm growth is important to predict contaminant removal. the computational time of the new model is reduced 90% compared to our prior work due to implementation of biofilm shrinkage in the cellular automaton method. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that biofilm shrinkage has been incorporated into a pore‐scale model for simulation of pollutant biodegradation in porous media.

reactive transport modeling: an essential tool and a new research approach for the earth sciences
reactive transport modeling is an essential tool for the analysis of coupled physical, chemical, and biological processes in earth systems, and has additional potential to better integrate the results from focused fundamental research on earth materials. appropriately designed models can describe the interactions of competing processes at a range of spatial and time scales, and hence are critical for connecting the advancing capabilities for materials characterization at the atomic scale with the macroscopic behavior of complex earth systems. reactive transport modeling has had a significant impact on the treatment of contaminant retardation in the subsurface, the description of elemental and nutrient fluxes between major earth reservoirs, and in the treatment of deep earth processes such as metamorphism and magma transport. active topics of research include the development of pore scale and hybrid, or multiple continua, models to capture the scale dependence of coupled reactive transport processes. frontier research questions, that are only now being addressed, include the effects of chemical microenvironments, coupled thermal–mechanical–chemical processes, controls on mineral–fluid reaction rates in natural media, and scaling of reactive transport processes from the microscopic to pore to field scale.

a cellular automata model of soil bioremediation
the remediation of contaminated soils is one of the major environmental problems in industrial countries today. among the different techniques that can be applied, in situ bioremediation, which relies upon the use of indigeneous microorganisms to degrade the contaminant, is one of the most attractive, both from an environmental and an economic viewpoint. a full-scale bioremediation process requires a number of laboratory and pilot-scale tests in order to assess the feasibility of the remediation, to define potential health threats, and to find optimal operating conditions. scaling up from the laboratory to the field can greatly benefit from the development of reliable mathematical models, which need to deal with several interacting physical, chemical, and biological phenomena. a macroscopic cellular automata (ca) model is presented here, which describes the major phenomena that take place in bioremediation. the reasons for using macroscopic ca are discussed. the model is composed
of the following three layers, each layer depending on the others. 1. a fluid dynamical layer, which describes multiphase flow through the soil. 2. a solute description layer, which deals with solute transport, adsorption/desorption, and chemical reactions. 3. a biological layer, which describes biomass growth and its interaction with the different chemicals. the model has been tested in a pilot plant in the case of contamination by phenol. the values of the phenomenological parameters have been determined by the use of genetic algorithms (gas). the model has proven capable of carefully describing experimental results for a wide range of experimental conditions. it is therefore an application of ca models to a real-world problem of high social and economic relevance.

towards optimum permeability reduction in porous media using biofilm growth simulations
while biological clogging of porous systems can be problematic in numerous processes (e.g., microbial enhanced oil recovery—meor), it is targeted during bio‐barrier formation to control sub‐surface pollution plumes in ground water. in this simulation study, constant pressure drop (cpd) and constant volumetric flow rate (cvf) operational modes for nutrient provision for biofilm growth in a porous system are considered with respect to optimum (minimum energy requirement for nutrient provision) permeability reduction for bio‐barrier applications. biofilm growth is simulated using a lattice‐boltzmann (lb) simulation platform complemented with an individual‐based biofilm model (ibm). a biomass detachment technique has been included using a fast marching level set (fmls) method that models the propagation of the biofilm–liquid interface with a speed proportional to the adjacent velocity shear field. the porous medium permeability reduction is simulated for both operational modes using a range of biofilm strengths. for stronger biofilms, less biomass deposition and energy input are required to reduce the system permeability during cpd operation, whereas cvf is more efficient at reducing the permeability of systems containing weaker biofilms.

an empirical method for modelling and simulating some complex macroscopic phenomena by cellular automata
novel parallel computing models sometime represent a valid alternative to standard differential equation methods in modelling complex phenomena. in particular, cellular automata (ca) provide such an alternative approach for some complex natural systems, whose behaviour can be described in terms of local interactions of their constituent parts. this paper illustrates an empirical method applied with interesting results in modelling and simulating some complex macroscopic phenomena.while classical ca are based upon elementary automata, with few states and a simple transition function, in order to deal with macroscopic phenomena it is often necessary to allow a large number of different states a more complicated transition.the notion of substate is introduced in the macroscopic case for decomposing the state of the cell. the values associated to substates can change in time either due to interactions among substates inside the cell (internal transformations) or to local interactions among neighbouring cells.the internal transformations are treated in a way similar to ordinary difference equations. the local interactions among cells can be often treated according to an algorithm for the  minimisation of differences, which describes a tendency of conserved quantities to reach an equilibrium distribution. a large class of complex macroscopic phenomena seem to satisfy the applicability conditions of such an empirical method; some of them are briefly reviewed.

coupled effects of chemotaxis and growth on traveling bacterial waves
traveling bacterial waves are capable of improving contaminant remediation in the subsurface. it is fairly well understood how bacterial chemotaxis and growth separately affect the formation and propagation of such waves. however, their interaction is not well understood. we therefore perform a modeling study to investigate the coupled effects of chemotaxis and growth on bacterial migration, and examine their effects on contaminant remediation. we study the waves by using different initial electron acceptor concentrations for different bacteria and substrate systems. three types of traveling waves can occur: a chemotactic wave due to the biased movement of chemotactic bacteria resulting from metabolism-generated substrate concentration gradients; a growth/decay/motility wave due to a dynamic equilibrium between bacterial growth, decay and random motility; and an integrated wave due to the interaction between bacterial chemotaxis and growth. chemotaxis hardly enhances the bacterial propagation if it is too weak to form a chemotactic wave or its wave speed is less than half of the growth/decay/motility wave speed. however, chemotaxis significantly accelerates bacterial propagation once its wave speed exceeds the growth/decay/motility wave speed. when convection occurs, it speeds up the growth/decay/motility wave but slows down or even eliminates the chemotactic wave due to the dispersion. bacterial survival proves particularly important for bacterial propagation. therefore we develop a conceptual model to estimate the speed of growth/decay/motility waves.

soil water flow at different spatial scales
a major challenge in hydrological sciences is the modeling of flow and transport processes and their measurement across a range of spatial or temporal scales. such needs arise, for example, when watershed processes must be determined from soil hydrological data collected from a limited number of in situ field measurements or analysis of small soil cores in the laboratory. the scaling problem cannot be solved by simple consideration of the differences in space or timescale, for several reasons. first, spatial and temporal variability in soil hydrological properties create uncertainties when changing between scales. second, flow and transport processes in vadose zone hydrology are highly nonlinear. as a result, vadose zone properties are nonunique and scale‐dependent, resulting in effective properties that vary across spatial scales and merely serve as calibration parameters in hydrologic models. therefore, their estimation for heterogeneous materials can only be accomplished using scale‐appropriate measurements and models. we present examples of soil water flow at the pore, local, and regional scales. the inherent complexity of flow in heterogeneous soils, and the need to integrate theory with experiment, requires innovative and multidisciplinary research efforts to overcome limitations imposed by current understanding of scale‐dependent soil water flow and transport processes.

modelling biofilm-modified hydrodynamics in 3d
a simulation–based study to predict the impact of biofilm growth on displacement distributions for flow of water through a supporting packed bed is presented. the lattice boltzmann method and a directed random walk algorithm are used, and are applied to the system with and without biofilm being present. the aim of this simulation study is to model the anomalous transport dynamics induced by biofilm, as reported in the literature, and thus to study the impact of observation time, d, on the shape of the displacement distributions (propagators). we believe that this is the first demonstration of a propagator simulation for flow through a complex porous structure modulated by biofilm growth. the propagator distributions undergo a transition from a pre-asymptotic to a gaussian-shaped distribution with increasing d. the propagators were simulated for a wide range of d going up to 500 seconds. this transition occurs with and without biofilm, but is very significantly delayed when biofilm is present due to the consequential development of essentially stagnant regions. the transition can be classified into three stages: a diffusiondominated stage, a “twin-peak” stage and an advection-dominated stage.

towards integration of cfd and photosynthetic reaction kinetics in modeling of microalgae culture systems
despite the growing interest in photosynthetic microalgae, e.g., as a source of biofuels, the mass cultivation of microalgae still exhibits many drawbacks and successful industrial applications are scarce. reliable model integrating all relevant phenomena and enabling to assess the system performance, its in silico scale-up and eventually optimization, is still lacking. here, we present a unified modeling framework for microalgae culture system. we propose a multidisciplinary modeling framework to bridge biology (cell growth) and physics (hydrodynamics and optics) together. this framework consists of (i) the state system (mass balance equations in form of advection-diffusion-reaction pdes), (ii) the fluid flow equations (navier-stokes equations), and (iii) the irradiance distribution. to validate the method, the couette-taylor reactor, which hydrodynamically induces the fluctuating light conditions, was chosen. the results of numerical simulation of microalgae growth in this device show good agreement with experimental data.

finite-element and lattice boltzmann based numerical modeling of environmental mass transfer processes

direct internal reformation and mass transport in the solid oxide fuel cell anode: a pore‐scale lattice boltzmann study with detailed reaction kinetics
the solid oxide fuel cell (sofc) allows the conversion of chemical energy that is stored in a given fuel, including light hydrocarbons, to electrical power. hydrocarbon fuels, such as methane, are logistically favourable and provide high energy densities. however, the use of these fuels often results in a decreased efficiency and life. an improved understanding of the reactive flow in the sofc anode can help address these issues. in this study, the transport and heterogeneous internal reformation of a methane based fuel is addressed. the effect of the sofc anode's complex structure on transport and reactions is shown to exhibit a complicated interplay between the local molar concentrations and the anode structure. strong coupling between the phenomenological microstructures and local reformation reaction rates are recognised in this study, suggesting the extension to actual microstructures may provide new insights into the reformation processes.

modeling and optimization of microalgae growth in photobioreactors: a multidisciplinary problem
microalgae have the potential to be a major biofuel source in the future. computational biology plays a key role in understanding biological processes within microalgae and optimizing biofuel production. here, we present a multidisciplinary, multi-timescale modeling approach of microalgae growth in photobioreactors. our modeling framework bridges biology (cell growth), physics (hydrodynamics and light distribution), and optimization together. this framework consists of (i) the state system (mass balance equations in form of advection-diffusion-reaction pdes), (ii) the fluid flow equations (the navier-stokes equations), and (iii) the optimization problem formulation. the modeling and optimization of microalgae growth in a couette-taylor reactor is presented to demonstrate this method. we show how the flashing light effect can be an intrinsic part of the model. finally, we discuss further methodological integration with the metabolomic-transcriptomic kinetic model, which explains cellular concentrations of key metabolites in connection with cell growth.

cfd in process engineering
process engineering focuses on the design, operation and maintenance of chemical and material manufacturing processes. as in other disciplines, cfd has attained a certain maturity in order to analyze and optimize these processes. besides convective, turbulent and diffusive transport of mass, momentum and energy, cfd in process engineering has to account for several other complexities such as multi phase fluids including phase changes, the kinetics of chemical and biological conversion, unknown material and thermodynamic properties, among others. the paper presents a selection of applications, where classical cfd techniques as well as new developments such as the lattice-boltzmann technique are utilized.

high-resolution particle-scale simulation of biomass pyrolysis
pyrolysis is an important process encountered in direct combustion, gasification, and fast pyrolysis of solid biomass materials. this paper describes a computational study of biomass pyrolysis at the particle scale, considering the intraparticle transport phenomena and flow fields surrounding the particles. the lattice boltzmann method, chosen to solve the conservation equations, was coupled with a chemical reaction mechanism to simulate the pyrolysis kinetics. the flow field was directly resolved at a scale smaller than the particle size, and darcy’s law was employed to simulate the gas flow in the porous biomass particle. the present numerical method was validated by predicting the pyrolysis process of a single biomass particle. the numerical results agreed with experimental data on the temperature history and extent of conversion of the biomass particle under pyrolysis conditions. a small-scale fast pyrolysis reactor was also simulated. the numerical results indicated that the pyrolysis process may be divided into three stages: rapid heating and decomposition of the raw biomass, moderate decomposition, and full completion. the results further indicated that the modeling approach in the literature, using a constant convective heat transfer coefficient, has the potential to cause numerical errors because it neglects the rapidly changing conditions of the particle and the flow field. parametric studies were also conducted to characterize the effects of the biomass particle concentration and the reactor inlet nitrogen velocity on pyrolysis. the results showed that increasing the biomass particle concentration significantly decreases the tar production and increases the syngas and char and that increasing the inlet nitrogen velocity moderately increases the tar production.

effect of non‐isothermal condition on heterogeneous flow through biofilter media by lattice boltzmann simulation
biofiltration technology has received much attention due to its effectiveness, low cost and environment friendly properties. it
is used to remove odors caused chiefly by hydrogen sulfide (h2s) via biological treatments. in this study, numerical simulations using the thermal lattice boltzmann method are implemented to investigate the effect of non-isothermal conditions on heterogeneous flow through three biofilter models that are partly filled with porous media. the generalized navier–stokes model based on the brinkman–forchheimer-extended darcy model is used to make several assumptions. the numerical results indicate that the rayleigh number has significant influence on the removal efficiencies of biofilters. there also exist critical rayleigh numbers for biofilters under non-isothermal conditions. if the rayleigh number is less than the critical value, the flow heterogeneity will reduce with increasing rayleigh number; otherwise, the flow heterogeneity will enhance with increasing rayleigh number. moreover, it was found that the performances of biofilters can be improved by designing non-isothermal conditions between the porous media layers, i.e. by adjusting the rayleigh number to optimize the detention time of waste air.

characterization of biodiesel particle emission in trapping and regeneration processes on cordierite diesel particulate filter
as well-known, the diesel engine has the highest thermal efficiency at the same load as compared with internal combustion engine but its disadvantage is particulate matter (pm) emitted to the atmosphere. the studies of this paper were divided into two parts. the first part studied the quantity of pm from the both diesel and biodiesel fuels at 80% load (2400 rpm) by the trapping process on diesel particulate filter (dpf) used in a partial flow dilution tunnel. the second part studied the regeneration process of pm under the flow rate of oxygen and nitrogen gas of 13.5 l/min with 10%, 15%, and 21% of oxygen gas. the result showed that amount of pm from biodiesel fuel was lower around two times than pm from diesel fuel. the duration in regeneration process of biodiesel's pm was shorter than diesel while increasing of oxygen percentage can reduce regeneration time.

multiscale/multiphysics modeling of biomass thermochemical processes
computational problems in simulating biomass thermochemical processes involve coupled processes that span several orders of magnitude in space and time. computational difficulties arise from a multitude of governing equations, each typically applicable over a narrow range of spatiotemporal scales, thus making it necessary to represent the processes as the result of the interaction of multiple physics modules, termed here as multiscale/ multiphysics (msmp) coupling. predictive simulations for such processes require algorithms that efficiently integrate the underlying msmp methods across scales to achieve prescribed accuracy and control computational cost. in addition, msmp algorithms must scale to one hundred thousand processors or more to effectively harness new computational resources and accelerate scientific advances. in this chapter, we discuss state-of-the-art modeling of macro-scale phenomena in a biomass pyrolysis reactor along with details of shortcomings and prospects in improving predictability. we also introduce the various multiphysics modules needed to model thermochemical conversion at lower spatiotemporal scales. furthermore, we illustrate the need for msmp coupling for thermochemical processes in biomass and provide an overview of the wavelet-based coupling techniques we have developed recently. in particular, we provide details about the compound wavelet matrix (cwm) and the dynamic cwm (dcwm) methods and show that they are highly efficient in transferring information among multiphysics models across multiple temporal and spatial scales. the algorithmic gain is in addition to the parallel spatial scalability from traditional domain decomposition methods. the cwm algorithms are serial in time and limited by the smallest-system time-scales. to relax this algorithmic constraint, we have recently coupled time parallel (tp) algorithms to cwm, thus yielding a novel approach termed tpcwm. we present preliminary results from the tpcwm technique, indicating that we can accelerate time-to-solution by two to three orders of magnitude even on 20-processors. these improvements can potentially constitute a new paradigm for msmp simulations. if such improvements in simulation capability can be generalized, the tpcwm approach can lead the way to predictive simulations of biomass thermochemical processes.

influence of fluid flow and light distribution on single cells in a bubble column photobioreactor
phototrophic microorganisms are often cultivated in closed photobioreactors (pbr) where fluid flow and light distribution play a key role in the process. hydrodynamic conditions determine the level of shear stress on single cells, mass and heat transfer, cell sedimentation, biofilm formations and have direct effect on light-dark (l/d)cycles. l/d cycles arise due to cell displacements, moving from regions of different irradiance level, and they have strong impact on the photosynthetic growth and process efficiency. the influence of light distribution on single cells during their displacement is scarcely reported in literature. in the present contribution, we first perform numerical simulations of bubble column flow in a cylindrical bioreactor considering continuous and dispersed phases. our cfd model is based on an eulerian-eulerian formulation. in order to simulate the presence of algae, we inject and track particles of micrometer size. afterwards, we solve the radiative transfer equation (rte) by means of a recently developed lattice boltzmann solver, in order to compute the polychromatic three-dimensional light field. our hybrid model allows us to study the effects of fluid flow and light distribution inside a pbr on single cells for different wavelengths and gas superficial velocities.

modeling microbial community structure and functional diversity across time and space
microbial communities exhibit exquisitely complex structure. many aspects of this complexity, from the number of species to the total number of interactions, are currently very difficult to examine directly. however, extraordinary efforts are being made to make these systems accessible to scientific investigation. while recent advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have improved accessibility to the taxonomic and functional diversity of complex communities, monitoring the dynamics of these systems over time and space — using appropriate experimental design — is still expensive. fortunately, modeling can be used as a lens to focus low-resolution observations of community dynamics to enable mathematical abstractions of functional and taxonomic dynamics across space and time. here, we review the approaches for modeling bacterial diversity at both the very large and the very small scales at which microbial systems interact with their environments. we show that modeling can help to connect biogeochemical processes to specific microbial metabolic pathways.

counterflow diffusion flame of hydrogen-enriched biogas under mild oxy-fuel condition
biogases are commonly found renewable fuels. meanwhile they are difficult to be economically utilized because their low calorific values are very small and the induced costs of upgrading are expensive. to overcome the above deficiencies, in this paper we discuss the feasibility to utilize biogases under the mild oxy-fuel operation recently proposed by the present authors. a popularly used counterflow configuration is adopted as the research prototype in this work. the effects of (1) the preheated temperature of the oxidizer mixtures, (2) the oxygen concentration in the oxidizer flow and (3) the hydrogen concentration in the fuel mixtures on the reaction structure of biogas under the new combustion condition are investigated with the aid of the lattice boltzmann method (lbm). through numerical simulation, it is found that the mild oxy-fuel combustion fueled by biogas can be sustained even with relatively low preheated temperature of the oxidizer, extremely highly diluted oxygen concentration in the oxidizer flow and little hydrogen addition in the fuel mixtures, which provide a solid theoretical basis to develop a novel scheme to respond to the challenge caused by co2 emissions. moreover, our discoveries imply the breakdown of the popularly used flamelet approach and emphasize the urgency to develop new turbulent combustion models for this novel combustion strategy.


applications of hybrid models in chemical, petroleum, and energy systems: a systematic review
mathematical modeling and simulation methods are important tools in studying various processes in science and engineering. in the current review, we focus on the applications of hybrid models (hms) in chemical processes, oil and gas processes, and applied energy systems. these processes suffer from complexities that demand advanced mathematical tools to be employed for various purposes such as process development, identification, simulation and modeling, optimization, control, classification, clustering, forecasting, and monitoring. beside the lack of adequate knowledge about the processes related to the chemical and energy systems, there are other mathematical complexities such as non-linearity, large and multi-scale, long dynamics, uncertainties, and high dimensionality. the hms can provide a practical solution to such complex processes. the arrangements of different black-box models with themselves or with white-box models are alternatively used to reduce the model complexities. the hybrid gray-box models are of significant importance as they combine the physical significance and generalization capabilities of the white-box models with the complexity reduction capability of the black-box models to facilitate/enhance the modeling strategy, while a desired precision is targeted. such a hybridized model enables the physically-meaningful computation for the time-demanding applications. in this paper, we review different sub-models, hybridization strategies, structural designs, screening criteria, and new directions in hybrid modeling, with focus on the corresponding applications in chemical, petroleum, and energy systems.

comparison of different models for computation of light distribution inside photobioreactors
microalgae are regarded as a potential choice for a sustainable production of food, feed or fuels. the cultivation of these microorganisms occurs in photobioreactors (pbr), where light distribution is a key aspect for their growth and it is a crucial parameter for the reactor productivity. besides, it is the primary energy source for the cellular metabolism of phototrophs. the radiative transfer equation (rte) governs the light propagation in turbid media, whose optical properties change spatially due to the local variation of the air volume fraction. nevertheless, the influence of the gas phase on the light attenuation is scarcely considered in literature. in the present contribution, we first simulate the fluid flow in a bubble column pbr, and then we utilise the spatial distributions of the gaseous and the liquid phase to compute the spectral radiation characteristics of microalgae suspensions. subsequently, we simulate the light field by means of a recently developed lattice boltzmann solver, and then we compare the results with simpler models available in literature.

simulation of biomass particle evolution under pyrolysis conditions using lattice boltzmann method
to accurately characterize biomass fast pyrolysis at the particle scale, intra-particle transport phenomena needs to be considered together with the gas flow surrounding the particle. in this study, a detailed numerical method was used to simulate the evolution of biomass particles under fast pyrolysis conditions. to conduct particle-scale simulations, the lattice boltzmann method (lbm) was employed to solve the conservation equations, and pyrolysis kinetics were implemented to describe the chemical reactions. the present model was validated by comparing the numerical results with experimental data for a single biomass particle under pyrolysis conditions. the predicted temperature and conversion history agree with the experimental data. the temperature and density fields in the particle were found to be anisotropic due to the effect of the gas flow surrounding the particle, which was ignored by the 1d model. the non-uniform distributions of surface temperature indicate that using a constant temperature or heat flux as boundary conditions may cause numerical errors. sensitivity analysis shows that density is the most influential parameter while porosity is the least. the heat of reaction converting the intermediate solid to char is more dominant than those of the three primary reactions. a parametric study was conducted to investigate the effect of particle shape on conversion time and final product yields. the simulation results show that the conversion time decreased when using the elliptic particle instead of the regular (circular) particle. the model also shows that more tar and syngas were produced, while less char was generated from an elliptic particle. the effect of particle shape on the center temperature of the biomass particle can be explained by comparing the heat transfer conditions at the front of the particle and the convective heat transfer at the top and bottom of the particle. the results demonstrated that the current lbm framework has the ability to reveal the detailed conversion process of biomass particles under various pyrolysis conditions, which can then be used to improve engineering models for reactor-scale simulation.

numerical modelling and uncertainty quantification of biodiesel filters
this dissertation explores the design and analysis of computer models for filters used to separate water from biodiesel. regulations concerning air pollution and increasing fossil fuel scarcity mandate the transition towards biofuels. moreover, increasingly stringent standards for fuel cleanliness are introduced continually. biodiesel exhibits strong affinity towards water, which makes its separation from the fuel challenging. water in the fuel can cause problems, ranging from reduced performance to significant damage to the equipment. a model of the filter is needed to substitute costly or impractical laboratory experiments and to enable the systematic studies of coalescence processes. these computational experiments provide a means for designing filtration equipment with optimal separation efficiency and pressure drop. the coalescence process is simulated using the lattice boltzmann modelling framework. these models offer several advantages over conventional computational fluid dynamics solvers and are commonly used for the simulation of multiphase flows. different versions of lattice boltzmann models in two and three dimensions are created and used in this work. complex computer models, such as those employed in this dissertation are considered expensive, in that their running times may prohibit any type of code analysis which requires many evaluations of the simulator to be performed. to alleviate this problem, a statistical metamodel known as a gaussian process emulator is used. once the computational cost of the model is reduced, uncertainty quantification methods and, in particular, sensitivity and reliability analyses are used to study its performance. tools and packages for industrial use are developed in this dissertation to enable the practical application of the studies conducted in it.

cfd as a design tool for fixed-bed reactors
computational fluid dynamics (cfd) is a tool that is becoming more realistic for use in the description of the detailed flow fields within fixed beds of low tube-to-particle diameter ratio (n). the motivation for the use of cfd is presented by reviewing the current state of fixed-bed reactor modeling, with an emphasis on the treatment of the description of fluid flow within the bed. challenges in the use of cfd for fixed beds of particles are treated here, selected results are presented for n = 2 and n = 4, and potential uses of the simulation information in design models for fixed-bed reactors are discussed.

multiscale modeling for bioresources and bioproducts
designing and processing complex matter and materials are key objectives of bioresource and bioproduct research. modeling approaches targeting such systems have to account for their two main sources of complexity: their intrinsic multi-scale nature; and the variability and heterogeneity inherent to all living systems. here we provide insight into methods developed at the food & bioproduct engineering division (cepia) of the french national institute of agricultural research (inra). this brief survey focuses on innovative research lines that tackle complexity by mobilizing different approaches with complementary objectives. on one hand cognitive approaches aim to uncover the basic mechanisms and laws underlying the emerging collective properties and macroscopic behavior of soft-matter and granular systems, using numerical and experimental methods borrowed from physics and mechanics. the corresponding case studies are dedicated to the structuring and phase behavior of biopolymers, powders and granular materials, and to the evolution of these structures caused by external constraints. on the other hand machine learning approaches can deal with process optimizations and outcome predictions by extracting useful information and correlations from huge datasets built from experiments at different length scales and in heterogeneous conditions. these predictive methods are illustrated in the context of cheese ripening, grape maturity prediction and bacterial production.

a review on sediment bioflocculation: dynamics, influencing factors and modeling
sediment in a water column provides excellent substratum for microorganism colonization, and biological processes would alter the physical and chemical of sediment, resulting in substantial changes in sediment dynamics. the flocculation of sediment with biological processes are defined as sediment bioflocculation, which has been ubiquitously observed across aquatic ecosystems, activated sludge plants and bioflocculant applications, as a result of various processes involving particle aggregation and breakage under the complex effects of microorganisms and their metabolic products (e.g., extracellular polymeric substances eps). eps are complex high-molecular-weight mixtures of polymers, which are the primary components that hold microbial aggregates together by acting as a biological glue. several mechanistic aggregation theories such as the alginate theory, adsorption bridging theory, divalent cation bridging theory, and derjaguin-landau-verwey-overbeek (dlvo) theory, and a number of influencing factors (e.g., sediment properties, microbial activity, eps quantities and components, and external environment conditions) have been proposed to elucidate the role of microorganisms and eps in sediment aggregation, promoting the investigation of the sediment bioflocculation evolution and kinetics models. however, due to the complex interrelationships of multiple physical, chemical, and biological processes and the incomprehensive knowledge of microorganisms and eps, considerable research should be further conducted to fully understand their precise roles in the sediment bioflocculation process. in this study, a review of dynamic characterizations, mechanism, influencing factors and models of sediment bioflocculation are given to obtain a more comprehensive understanding of sediment bioflocculation dynamics.

theoretical modeling of fluid flow in cellular biological media: an overview
fluid–structure interactions strongly affect, in multiple ways, the structure and function of cellular biological media, such as tissues, biofilms, and cell-entrapping gels. mathematical models and computer simulation are important tools in advancing our understanding of these interactions, interpreting experimental observations, and designing novel processes and biomaterials. in this paper, we present a comprehensive survey and highlight promising directions of future research on theoretical modeling of momentum transport in cellular biological media with focus on the formulation of governing equations and the calculation of material properties both theoretically and experimentally. with regard to the governing equations, significant work has been done with single-scale approaches (e.g. mixture theory), whereas traditional upscaling methods (e.g. homogenization, volume averaging) or multiscale equation-free approaches have received limited attention. the underlying concepts, strengths, and limitations of each approach, as well as examples of use in the field of biomaterials are presented. the current status of knowledge regarding the dependence of macroscopic material properties on the volume fractions, geometry, and intrinsic material properties of the constituent phases (cells, extracellular matrix and fluid) is also presented. the observation of conformational changes that occur at finer levels of the structural hierarchy during momentum transport, the correlation of macro-properties with geometrical and topological features of materials with heterogeneous and anisotropic microstructure, as well as the determination of dynamic material properties are among important challenges for future research.

particle-based biofilm reactor technology
particle-based biofilm reactors provide the potential to develop compact and high-rate processes. in these reactors, a large biomass content can be maintained, and the large specific surface area ensures that the conversions are not strongly limited by the biofilm liquid mass-transfer rate. engineered design and control of particle-based biofilm reactors are established, and reliable correlations exist for the estimation of the design parameters. as a result, a new generation of high-load, efficient biofilm reactors are operating throughout the world with several full-scale applications for industrial and municipal waste-water treatment.

assessment of the interplay between scaffold geometry, induced shear stresses, and cell proliferation within a packed bed perfusion bioreactor
by favoring cell proliferation and differentiation, perfusion bioreactors proved efficient at optimizing cell culture. the aim of this study was to quantify cell proliferation within a perfusion bioreactor and correlate it to the wall shear stress (wss) distribution by combining 3‐d imaging and computational fluid dynamics simulations.nih‐3t3 fibroblasts were cultured onto a scaffold model made of impermeable polyacetal spheres or polydimethylsiloxane cubes. after 1, 2, and 3 weeks of culture, constructs were analyzed by micro‐computed tomography (μct) and quantification of cell proliferation was assessed. after 3 weeks, the volume of cells was found four times higher in the stacking of spheres than in the stacking of cube.3d‐μct reconstruction of bioreactors was used as input for the numerical simulations. using a lattice‐boltzmann method, we simulated the fluid flow within the bioreactors. we retrieved the wss distribution (pdf) on the scaffolds surface at the beginning of cultivation and correlated this distribution to the local presence of cells after 3 weeks of cultivation. we found that the wss distributions strongly differ between spheres and cubes even if the porosity and the specific wetted area of the stackings were very similar. the pdf is narrower and the mean wss is lower for cubes (11 mpa) than for spheres (20 mpa). for the stacking of spheres, the relative occupancy of the surface sites by cells is maximal when wss is greater than 20 mpa. for cubes, the relative occupancy is maximal when the wss is lower than 10 mpa. the discrepancies between spheres and cubes are attributed to the more numerous sites in stacking of spheres that may induce 3‐d (multi‐layered) proliferation.

hybrid numerical simulation of fluid flow and
light distribution in a bubble column photobioreactor
cultivation of phototrophic microorganisms occurs often in closed photobioreactors (pbr). thereby, the distribution of light inside pbr is a key factor for phototrophic growth and reactor productivity. to predict local light intensities, it is often assumed that the absorption rate is constant in space, and scattering by microorganisms is negligible. the present contribution aims to present a hybrid model to simulate fluid flow characteristics and its impact on light fields in a bubble column pbr. first, numerical simulations of bubble column flow have been performed. afterwards, the computed local air volume fractions have been used to obtain local radiation characteristics of the gassed suspension, and polychromatic light fields were computed and compared to the optically homogeneous case.


visualization, modelling and prediction in soil microbiology
the introduction of new approaches for characterizing microbial communities and imaging soil environments has benefited soil microbiology by providing new ways of detecting and locating microorganisms. consequently, soil microbiology is poised to progress from simply cataloguing microbial complexity to becoming a systems science. a systems approach will enable the structures of microbial communities to be characterized and will inform how microbial communities affect soil function. systems approaches require accurate analyses of the spatio–temporal properties of the different microenvironments present in soil. in this review we advocate the need for the convergence of the experimental and theoretical approaches that are used to characterize and model the development of microbial communities in soils.

euler–lagrange modeling of a gas–liquid stirred reactor with consideration of bubble breakage and coalescence
simulations of a gas–liquid stirred reactor including bubble breakage and coalescence were performed. the filtered conservation equations for the liquid phase were discretized using a lattice‐boltzmann scheme. a lagrangian approach with a bubble parcel concept was used for the dispersed gas phase. bubble breakage and coalescence were modeled as stochastic events. additional assumptions for bubble breakup modeling in an euler–lagrange framework were proposed. the action of the reactor components on the liquid flow field was described using an immersed boundary condition. the predicted number‐based mean diameter and long‐term averaged liquid velocity components agree qualitatively and quantitatively well with experimental data for a laboratory‐scale gas–liquid stirred reactor with dilute dispersion. effects of the presence of bubbles, as well as the increase in the gas flow rate, on the hydrodynamics were numerically studied. the modeling technique offers an alternative engineering tool to gain detailed insights into complex industrial‐scale gas–liquid stirred reactors.

mechanistic process modeling for subsurface remediation
the goal of this project was to develop the first generation of models that fully address the coupling of dominant processes controlling the behavior of fluid, chemical and biological components in the subsurface. the large memory and computational performance of multiprocessor computing architectures would be exploited to provide modeling capabilities with unprecedented process detail and resolution to assess new scientific hypotheses, assist with experimental design, and to evaluate environmental technologies and remediation design. moreover, the proposed capability developments would advance the scientific agenda for the subsurface through the realized advances in complex multiple-phase reaction modeling.

a lattice boltzmann method for the simulation of light transfer in turbid media and its application in computational studies on microalgae growth kinetics
one of the major challenges in the 21st century is the exploitation of new sustainable and environmental friendly resources. it is often mentioned that the production of biomolecules from microalgae has large potential to contribute to a bio-based economy. however, to date it is still challenging to establish competitive products from microalgae. a major issue thereby is the limitation of cell growth by light, which occurs in every photobioreactor from a certain point in time. it is known that the efficiency of the light-to-biomass conversion decreases under strong illumination, but also that it increases if the illumination occurs with flashing light; a phenomenon known as flashing-light effect. hence, researchers try to create flashing light regimes in photobioreactors - often by intensive mixing of the cell culture in order to shuttle algae cells between light and dark zones.

the objective of this work is to evaluate the interplay of light distribution, hydrodynamic mixing and cellular reaction kinetics in photobioreactors with a special focus on the flashing-light effect. numerical simulation is a desirable tool to study complex kinetic problems with spatio-temporal dependencies for engineering purposes and will be applied in this work. therefore, a new numerical model for the simulation of the light distribution in a photobioreactor is developed within the lattice boltzmann framework. subsequently, the model is combined with other sub-models for reaction kinetics and hydrodynamics to investigate the interplay of light distribution, light exposure and cell growth in a bubble column photobioreactor and to evaluate the impact of different operation conditions.

the spatio-temporal distribution of light is the key element for efficient photobiotechnological production processes. the developed lattice boltzmann model takes absorption and three-dimensional scattering of light into account and was validated by means of monte carlo simulations and experiments. the results of this work demonstrate that the model is capable of simulating three-dimensional light transfer for a broad range of optically active media, although further research is needed to improve boundary conditions and to enable the simulation of light transfer in more complex geometries. therefore, an important result of this work is that the lattice boltzmann approach provides in principle a suitable methodological framework for three-dimensional simulations of light propagation in participating media.

concerning the transport of light in a bubble column photobioreactor, it is shown by means of multi-physical simulations of the multiphase flow and light propagation that the presence of a gaseous phase has only a small effect on the spatial light distribution and, therefore, on the microbial growth kinetics. thus, this factor can be neglected in light propagation models, what leads to a drastic reduction of the computational costs. this finding is explained by the fact that the absorption of light by the cell culture is clearly the dominating feature at most wavelengths, what causes the light intensity to be low at points where gas bubbles are located so that the absolute effects of the gas phase on light distribution are weak. the results may differ from these findings for other configurations than the investigated ones, e.g. other sparger types, much higher gas superficial velocities or smaller gas bubbles. however, the general trend that an increase of the biomass concentration counteracts any beneficial effect of the gas phase on the distribution of light can also be expected in these cases.

additional simulations of the investigated bubble column photobioreactor consider also the motion of individual algae cells and the dynamics of the photosynthetic reactions under fluctuating light exposure. for different states of operation and emission characteristics of the light source, it is shown that the shuttling of algae cell between light and dark zones of the culture is not fast enough to induce the flashing-light effect in a population of the green microalgae c. reinhardtii. therefore, it is unlikely that hydrodynamic mixing is a suitable strategy to induce the flashing-light effect and to improve the productivity of photobioreactors, which is however often considered as promising in the literature. a further discussion on the topic indicates that the flashing-light effect will also be not induced by means of hydrodynamic mixing in tubular photobioreactors because shear damage of the cells and the increasing demand for mixing energy limit the reachable light/dark frequencies. in contrast, further simulations indicate that the productivity of photobioreactors can be enhanced by means of pulsed light emission even on the scale of conventional photobioreactors. pulsed illumination can only be realized by means of artificial light sources. led appear most promising for this purpose because they unify several beneficial operation characteristics and offer additional opportunities such as the adaption of emission spectra and intensity during cultivation processes in order to achieve tailored light regimes. therefore, a possible future scenario could be the efficient production of metabolites with a high market value from microalgae in indoor cultivation systems with tailored light regimes under industrial conditions.

computer simulation study of early bacterial biofilm development
most bacteria form organized sessile communities, known as biofilms. their ubiquity and relevance have stimulated the development of efficient mathematical models able to predict biofilm evolution and characteristics at different conditions. here we present a study of the early stages of bacterial biofilm formation modeled by means of individual cell-based computer simulation. simulation showed that clusters with different degrees of internal and orientational order were formed as a function of the aspect ratio of the individual particles and the relation between the diffusion and growth rates. analysis of microscope images of early biofilm formation by the gram-negative bacterium pseudomonas putida at varying diffusion rates revealed a good qualitative agreement with the simulation results. our model is a good predictor of microcolony morphology during early biofilm development, showing that the competition between diffusion and growth rates is a key aspect in the formation of stable biofilm microcolonies.

a unifying hypothesis for the structure of microbial biofilms based on cellular automaton models
a review of the basic structure of microbial biofilm reveals that at least three conceptual models exist: (i) heterogeneous mosaic biofilm, (ii) penetrated water-channel biofilm and (iii) dense confluent biofilm. when consideration is given to the effects of growth resource, it may be that all three variants are correct but form at widely different substrate concentrations. experimental research with bacterial colonies and models of the latter using cellular automata have confirmed this view. use of cellular automata to model biofilm growth give results which strongly suggest that biofilm structure is largely determined by substrate concentration.

cellular automata-based modelling and simulation of biofilm structure on multi-core computers
the article presents a mathematical model of biofilm growth for aerobic biodegradation of a toxic carbonaceous substrate. modelling of biofilm growth has fundamental significance in numerous processes of biotechnology and mathematical modelling of bioreactors. the process following double-substrate kinetics with substrate inhibition proceeding in a biofilm has not been modelled so far by means of cellular automata. each process in the model proposed, i.e. diffusion of substrates, uptake of substrates, growth and decay of microorganisms and biofilm detachment, is simulated in a discrete manner. it was shown that for flat biofilm of constant thickness, the results of the presented model agree with those of a continuous model. the primary outcome of the study was to propose a mathematical model of biofilm growth; however a considerable amount of focus was also placed on the development of efficient algorithms for its solution. two parallel algorithms were created, differing in the way computations are distributed. computer programs were created using openmp application programming interface for c++ programming language. simulations of biofilm growth were performed on three high-performance computers. speed-up coefficients of computer programs were compared. both algorithms enabled a significant reduction of computation time. it is important, inter alia, in modelling and simulation of bioreactor dynamics.

individual-based modelling of biofilms
understanding the emergence of the complex organization of biofilms from the interactions of its parts, individual cells and their environment, is the aim of the individual-based modelling (ibm) approach. this ibm is version 2 of bacsim, a model of escherichia coli colony growth, which was developed into a two-dimensional multi-substrate, multi-species model of nitrifying biofilms. it was compared with the established biomass-based model (bbm) of picioreanu and others. both models assume that biofilm growth is due to the processes of diffusion, reaction and growth (including biomass growth, division and spreading). in the ibm, each bacterium was a spherical cell in continuous space and had variable growth parameters. spreading of biomass occurred by shoving of cells to minimize overlap between cells. in the bbm, biomass was distributed in a discrete grid and each species had uniform growth parameters. spreading of biomass occurred by cellular automata rules. in the ibm, the effect of random variation of growth parameters of individual bacteria was negligible in contrast to the e. coli colony model, because the heterogeneity of substrate concentrations in the biofilm was more important. the growth of a single cell into a clone, and therefore also the growth of the less abundant species, depended on the randomly chosen site of attachment, owing to the heterogeneity of substrate concentrations in the biofilm. the ibm agreed with the bbm regarding the overall growth of the biofilm, due to the same diffusion-reaction processes. however, the biofilm shape was different due to the different biomass spreading mechanisms. the ibm biofilm was more confluent and rounded due to the steady, deterministic and directionally unconstrained spreading of the bacteria. since the biofilm shape is influenced by the spreading mechanism, it is partially independent of growth, which is driven by diffusion-reaction. chance in initial attachment events modifies the biofilm shape and the growth of single cells because of the high heterogeneity of substrate concentrations in the biofilm, which again results from the interaction of diffusion-reaction with spreading. this stresses the primary importance of spreading and chance in addition to diffusion-reaction in the emergence of the complexity of the biofilm community.

searching for simple rules in pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm formation
living cells display complex and non-linear behaviors, especially when posed to environmental threats. here, to understand the self-organizing cooperative behavior of a microorganism pseudomonas aeruginosa, we developed a discrete spatiotemporal cellular automata model based on simple physical rules, similar to conway's game of life. the time evolution model simulations were experimentally verified for p. aeruginosa biofilm for both control and antibiotic azithromycin (azm) treated condition. our model suggests that azm regulates the single cell motility, thereby resulting in delayed, but not abolished, biofilm formation. in addition, the model highlights the importance of reproduction by cell to cell interaction is key for biofilm formation. overall, this work highlights another example where biological evolutionary complexity may be interpreted using rules taken from theoretical disciplines.

an improved cellular automaton method to model multispecies biofilms
biomass-spreading rules used in previous cellular automaton methods to simulate multispecies biofilm introduced extensive mixing between different biomass species or resulted in spatially discontinuous biomass concentration and distribution; this caused results based on the cellular automaton methods to deviate from experimental results and those from the more computationally intensive continuous method. to overcome the problems, we propose new biomass-spreading rules in this work: excess biomass spreads by pushing a line of grid cells that are on the shortest path from the source grid cell to the destination grid cell, and the fractions of different biomass species in the grid cells on the path change due to the spreading. to evaluate the new rules, three two-dimensional simulation examples are used to compare the biomass distribution computed using the continuous method and three cellular automaton methods, one based on the new rules and the other two based on rules presented in two previous studies. the relationship between the biomass species is syntrophic in one example and competitive in the other two examples. simulation results generated using the cellular automaton method based on the new rules agree much better with the continuous method than do results using the other two cellular automaton methods. the new biomass-spreading rules are no more complex to implement than the existing rules.

a 2d cellular automaton biofilm detachment algorithm
a cellular-automaton based two-dimensional biofilm detachment module is developed. the module is an improvement of previously presented methodologies for modeling biofilm detachment under the influence of hydrodynamic forces of the moving fluid in which biofilm develops. it uses biofilm mechanical properties that are variable in time and space and are determined by the percentage of each biofilm solid substance—active biomass, extracellular polymeric substance (eps) and residual dead biomass—and pores that are contained in each cellular automaton compartment in the biofilm column. a methodology is presented that estimates wall shear stresses applied on the biofilm by the fluid for different hydrodynamic conditions and an association with the biofilm mechanical properties is created to predict its detachment.

a cellular automata model for biofilm growth
biofilms are aggregates of bacteria attached to surfaces, which are very adaptable to changes in the environment and survive under extreme conditions. these living structures are behind many problems in research and industry. therefore there is an increasing interest in improving our understanding on biofilms to be able to control them, either designing protocols to destroy them when harmful or promoting their growth when beneficial. a bidimensional cellular automata model for biofilm development is proposed to study the biofilm behaviour as its key growth parameters vary. the model includes several metabolic and spreading mechanisms typical of bacteria: cell division and spreading, detachment mechanisms adapted to the flow and probabilistic rules for eps matrix generation. numerical simulations of the model reproduce a number of biofilm patterns observed in real experiments: ripples, streamers, mushroom networks and patches. the influence of the nutrient concentration and the type of flow on the evolution of the bacterial community is monitorized. biofilm tends to cover the whole surface when enough nutrients are available. erosion enhances the creation of holes in this cover and promotes a variety of geometric patterns. the survival of the colony and its final shape will depend on the balance between the main growth parameters. large reynolds numbers and poor nutrient sources promote the formation of flat, and thin biofilms. decreasing the reynolds number or increasing the nutrient and oxygen concentration enhance pattern formation.

a new combined differential-discrete cellular automaton approach for biofilm modeling: application for growth in gel beads
the theoretical basis and quantitative evaluation of a new approach for modeling biofilm growth are presented here. soluble components (e.g., substrates) are represented in a continuous field, whereas discrete mapping is used for solid components (e.g., biomass). the spatial distribution of substrate is calculated by applying relaxation methods to the reaction–diffusion mass balance. a biomass density map is determined from direct integration in each grid cell of a substrate‐limited growth equation. spreading and distribution of biomass is modeled by a discrete cellular automaton algorithm. the ability of this model to represent diffusion–reaction–microbial growth systems was tested for a well‐characterized system: immobilized cells growing in spherical gel beads. good quantitative agreement with data for global oxygen consumption rate was found. the calculated concentration profiles of substrate and biomass in gel beads corresponded to those measured. moreover, it was possible, using the discrete spreading algorithm, to predict the spatial two‐ and three‐dimensional distribution of microorganisms in relation to, for example, substrate flux and inoculation density. the new technique looks promising for modeling diffusion–reaction–microbial growth processes in heterogeneous systems as they occur in biofilms.

cellular automaton for bacterial towers
a simulation approach to the stochastic growth of bacterial towers is presented, in which a non-uniform and finite nutrient supply essentially determines the emerging structure through elementary chemotaxis. the method is based on cellular automata and we use simple, microscopic, local rules for bacterial division in nutrient-rich surroundings. stochastic nutrient diffusion, while not crucial to the dynamics of the total population, is influential in determining the porosity of the bacterial tower and the roughness of its surface. as the bacteria run out of food, we observe an exponentially rapid saturation to a carrying capacity distribution, similar in many respects to that found in a recently proposed phenomenological hierarchical population model, which uses heuristic parameters and macroscopic rules. complementary to that phenomenological model, the simulation aims at giving more microscopic insight into the possible mechanisms for one of the recently much studied bacterial morphotypes, known as “towering biofilm”, observed experimentally using confocal laser microscopy. a simulation suggesting a mechanism for biofilm resistance to antibiotics is also shown.

quantitative cellular automaton model for biofilms
a fully quantitative cellular automaton (ca) biofilm model was developed. the model describes substrate and biomass as discrete particles existing and interacting in a specified physical domain. substrate particles move by random walks, simulating molecular diffusion. microbial particles grow attached to a surface or to other microbial particles, consume substrate particles, and duplicate if a sufficient amount of substrate is consumed. the dynamics of the system are simulated using stochastic processes that represent the occurrence of specific events, such as substrate diffusion, substrate utilization, biofilm growth, and biofilm decay and detachment. the ability of the ca model to predict substrate gradients and fluxes was evaluated by comparing model simulations to predictions from a traditional differential equations model. one and 2d ca models were evaluated. in general, ca model predictions of steady-state flux, biofilm thickness, and substrate gradients inside the biofilm fitted well the differential equations model results; the 2d model had a better agreement at high substrate concentrations. fully quantitative ca biofilm models offer an alternative approach to simulate biofilm activity and development. specific advantages of ca modeling include the ability to simulate growth of heterogeneous biofilms with irregular boundary conditions, and the possibility of developing computationally efficient parallel processing algorithms for the quantitative simulation of biofilms in two and three dimensions.